





Network Working Group                                           J. Lines
Request for Comments: xxxx
                                                            1 March 1996


       A MIME content type for 'tagged' partially structured data

Status of this Memo

   This memo describes an experimental protocol for the Internet commu-
   nity.  Discussion and suggestions for improvement are welcomed.  Dis-
   tribution of this memo is unlimited.

Overview and Rationale

   The existing MIME content types provide for the transfer of informa-
   tion intended to be read by a human being, or viewed as an image, or
   played as a sound, and while information targeted at a specific
   application is conveyed by the application types.

   This document describes a system for organising information as a
   series of groups of records where each record consists of an identi-
   fying tag, followed by the data for that record. This document does
   not describe the valid tag values, but provides an overall framework
   for creation of different tag types.

   There are many pieces of information which are carried around the
   Internet at present which are often manually entered into applica-
   tions due to the absence of standard ways of exchanging such informa-
   tion in an application-neutral way.

   For example if I am part of a group of Sun users who wish to be
   informed that a meeting will take place at some particular time then
   a specially formatted mail message will enable recipients of the mes-
   sage to put the information directly into Sun calendar manager.  Many
   LAN based mail systems have similar facilities, provided everyone is
   using the same set of products.

   At present information about events is available across the Internet
   in mailing lists, News groups and Web pages but has to be transposed
   by hand into electronic diaries.

   Similarly a MIME type to describe the actions put on the attendees of
   a meeting which could be attached to the minutes and read into their
   todo lists would save much unnecessary retyping.

   Events, actions and much more can be exchanged using the tag type
   system described below.



Lines                                                   FORMFEED[Page 1]





RFC xxxx                    The Tag MIME type               1 March 1996


Design considerations

   In order to be useful across the wide range of systems used on the
   Internet the information within a tagged type should be comprehensi-
   ble to someone with no specialised reader software, in much the same
   way as a MIME text/plain message does not require a specialised mail
   reader.

   It should be possible to create the information with a normal text
   editor so that specialist software is not required for creating
   information.

   There should be few restrictions on the actual data which may be
   transfered.  In particular it is desireable to be able to preserve
   the formatting of a block of text, rather than have it treated as a
   string of words.



Tag stream format

   A tag stream looks like a series of items of the form
   Tagname: value
   or
   Tagname:: End_label
   several lines
   of text
   End_label

   In the first format the data associated with the tag is the contents of
   the line following the colon, except that a single leading space is
   not considered part of the data. (For particular applications leading
   spaces may not be important in any case).

   In the second format the data is all the lines down to, but not including
   the End_label. Any non-whitespace printable ASCII string may be used for
   the End_label, but the use of a single period is not recommended.

   The first tag in the file will be of the form
   Tag-tagtype-version: n.nn



Tag type registration

   The formal description of a particular tag type is contained in a file
   which is itself in tag format. The MIME type tag/dsc is used to exchange
   tag file descriptors. New tag descriptions or updated versions should be



Lines                                                   FORMFEED[Page 2]





RFC xxxx                    The Tag MIME type               1 March 1996


   registered according to the procedures described in RFC1590.


Discussion

   The machine readable definition of tag types enables suites of programs
   to be created which can process tag streams without needing to understand
   the specific application they are used for. They can be used to filter
   attachments before they are fed into an application, or presented to the
   reader.

Security Considerations

   The ability to exchange data between applications through an open specification
   should improve security overall.

   Where any tag type contains data which may carry its own security risks
   that should be discussed in the information which relates to the particular
   tag type.


Author's Address

   John Lines
   52, North Hinksey Lane,
   Oxford,
   OX2 0LY

   Phone: +44 1865 721294

   Email: john@paladin.demon.co.uk




















Lines                                                   FORMFEED[Page 3]


